# Miracle Fruit History

*Synsepalum dulcificum* is a plant species that originates from West Africa. The plant and its fruit are also known as miracle fruit, miracle berry, and miraculous berry. In Africa, they call it *agbayun*, *taami*, *asaa*, and *ledidi*. The plant is a shrub with dark green dense foliage. It grows best in soils with low pH and an environment with high humidity. It can also survive during long periods of low rainfall, full sunshine and slopes. It takes 3 to 4 years for the plants to bear fruit. They may produce two crops per year. The plant produces white flowers and small red berries. It is best known for its berry which is a taste modifier. The small red berry alters the taste of acidic foods like lemons and limes making them taste sweet.

The miracle fruit was first registered by explorer Chevalier des Marchais during his excursions in the 18th century. In 1852, the first description of the fruit appeared in the literature and it was called the “miraculous berry.” Experiments were conducted by the Dutch and Japanese to separate and refine the active glycoprotein in the 1960s. The berry was sequenced in 1989 and was found to consist of 191 amino acids and a variety of sugars. Its sugars consist of glucosamine, mannose, fucose, xylose, and galactose.

In Africa, they use miraculin as a sweetener and flavoring agent for beverages and foods. They use its fruit pulp for cocktails drinks, beers, vinegar and pickles. It also used to sweeten palm wine. Experiments have been conducted to try to express miraculin in yeast and tobacco plants, but so far this has failed. Researchers have been successful in preparing genetically modified *E. coli* bacteria, lettuce, and tomatoes that express the glycoprotein miraculin, resulting in 40 micrograms of miraculin per gram of lettuce leaves (for example). Two grams of lettuce leaves produced about the same amount of miraculin as one berry.

Miracle fruit was first used in the United States in the 1980s, in an attempt to commercialize the fruit for ability to turn sour foods to sweet without a caloric cost. It was also sold as a diet pill in the 1970s. There were tasting events where people consumed sour foods and experienced the taste-modifying activity of the glycoprotein turning the foods sweet.

Keiko Abe from the University of Tokyo has led a group of researchers from France and Japan in studying the secret of this sweetening fruit. Abe and his team were the first to discuss the mechanisms by which this protein impacts taste receptors to cause the changes in flavor perception.

Along with his team of scientists, Abe determined the impact of miraculin on human taste receptors by using it at varying pH levels on cultured cells. These cells had been treated with fluorescent molecules to make it easier to detect activation. When the cells glowed, the team knew that there was some sort of action going on. Interestingly, the team discovered through the complex experiment that miraculin didn’t actually offer any activation of the taste receptors that are responsible for sweet taste at normal pH levels. Instead, it was found that the protein has more of an inhibitory effect. Only when the pH levels were lowered (slightly acidic) were these sweet taste receptors activated. This made foods that were slightly acidic, like limes and lemons, taste sweeter.
